Split messages by stream type. (#407)
moq-wg/moq-transport: draft-ietf-moq-transport.md

but might have different optimal values in those versions, there SHOULD be
separate Setup parameters for that information in each version.

## Control Stream
The first stream opened is a client-initiated bidirectional stream where
the peers exchange Setup Messages ({{message-setup}}).
All control messages ({{message-control}}) are sent over this control stream.

This draft only specifies a single use of bidirectional streams.

> Because there are no other uses of bidirectional streams, a peer MAY currently close the session as a 'Protocol Violation' if it receives a second bidirectional stream.

Author: We should definitely do a pass and create more specific error codes. "Protocol Violation" is really a "TODO".

In this instance, I think we'll remove this error case eventually. I'd like to support multiple control streams, ideally one per session/broadcast, to avoid head-of-line blocking between unrelated tracks.

The control stream MUST NOT be abruptly closed at the underlying transport
layer. Doing so results in the session being closed as a 'Protocol Violation'.

## Data Streams

> A publisher will create unidirectional streams containing one or more data messages ({{message-data}}).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A publisher creates unidirectional streams containing one or more data messages ({{message-data}}).
```

> Data streams MAY be canceled due to congestion or other reasons by either the sender or receiver. Early termination of a stream does not affect the MoQ application state, and therefore has no effect on outstanding subscriptions.

Reviewer: I think this text is largely existing.

> Data streams MAY be canceled due to congestion or other reasons by either the sender or receiver. Early termination of a stream does not affect the MoQ application state, and therefore has no effect on outstanding subscriptions.

Author: Yeah this is copy-paste.

## Datagrams
A publisher may transmit datagrams containing a datagram messages ({{message-datagram}}).

> This is done to avoid retransmissions and is useful for transient objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This avoids retransmissions, minimizes framing and flow control overhead, and is useful for transient objects.
```

Author: I don't want to upsell datagrams. They save 2-4 bytes (just the stream ID) but that's not the reason why you should use them.

I'll write another blurb that focuses on the timeliness angle.

Reviewer 2: +1 on Ian's suggestions.

Reviewer: I agree the byte savings is small, but it's also easy to understand.  I think flow control is the most compelling reason to use datagrams instead of object per stream.  If a connection only allows 100 streams at once, it's extremely easy for stream limits to be a constraint.

One doesn't have to retransmit stream data, but I agree that is the assumed default behavior.

This draft only specifies a single use of bidirectional streams.
Because there are no other uses of bidirectional streams, a peer MAY currently close the session as a 'Protocol Violation' if it receives a second bidirectional stream.

The control stream MUST NOT be abruptly closed at the underlying transport
layer. Doing so results in the session being closed as a 'Protocol Violation'.

## Object Transmission
A publisher uses unidirectional streams (data stream) or datagrams to transmit objects.
Each object contains a range of contiguous bytes of the specified track, as well as associated metadata required to deliver, cache, and forward it.

Each data stream contains one or more data messages ({{message-data}}).
Each stream MAY be canceled due to congestion or other reasons by either the sender or receiver. Early termination of a stream does not affect the MoQ application state, and therefore has no effect on outstanding subscriptions.

Each datagram contains a single datagram message ({{message-datagram}}).
Datagrams are transient, intended for objects with a tight deadline that do not need retransmissions or flow control.

> A datagram MAY be dropped for any reason, such as congestion, and SHOULD NOT be queued or cached.

Reviewer 2: I don't think queuing or caching statement is appropriate here. Its relay implementation detail and they are free to cache objects or not reagrdless of where they come from (stream/datagram)

Author: > I don't think queuing or caching statement is appropriate here. Its relay implementation detail and they are free to cache objects or not reagrdless of where they come from (stream/datagram)

Sure, I didn't realize this statement would be controversial and we can discuss in #408 instead.

# Messages {#message}

MoQT endpoints exchange sequentially encoded messages over QUIC streams and datagrams.

~~~
MOQT Message {

>   Message ID (i),

Reviewer: Good point, I'd prefer to stick with Type.  ID does imply something that increments, like a Subscribe ID or Stream ID to me.

>   Message ID (i),

Author: Agreed, the table below used `ID` so I wanted to be consistent. I can change the table instead.

  Message Payload (..),
}
~~~
{: #moq-transport-message-format title="MOQT Message"}

There are three categories of messages, identified by the underlying transport type.

- Control Messages ({{message-control}}): bidirectional streams
- Data Messages ({{message-data}}): unidirectional streams
- Datagram Messages ({{message-datagram}}): datagrams

> Each category has its own registry of Message ID which may overlap.

Author: No, everything is wire identical to today and we're not using extra bytes.

I'm trying to specify proposal 2 in #379 but without reflowing the types yet so this PR is editorial only. I'm just trying to say that the meaning of message type = 3 depends on if the message was received over a bidirectional or unidirectional stream (or datagram).

The benefit is that we can reuse IDs (saving bits) and avoid constantly checking the context of a message. It's no longer possible to receive a SUBSCRIBE message over a data stream (unidirectional) or datagram because that type is only registered for control streams (bidirectional).

For example, the meaning of Message ID = 3 changes depend on the stream type.

An endpoint that receives an unknown message type MUST close the session with a 'Protocol Violation'.

## Control Messages {#message-control}

> Control messages are transmitted over bidirectional streams.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Control messages are transmitted over the bidirectional stream used to establish the session.
```

  compatibility.

> ## Data Messages {#message-data}

Reviewer: The distinction between data messages and those sent over datagrams is a bit odd to me, since it's the same type of data.

Author: It's just to specify that only a subset of messages are allowed in datagram contexts. There might be a better way of doing that though.

Also I thought the plan is to add a length to OBJECT_STREAM, but we definitely shouldn't do that for OBJECT_DATAGRAM. Maybe we also add datagram-only messages in the future and it's just more future-compatible to have a separate object type registry for datagrams.

|-------|-----------------------------------------------------|
| ID    | Messages                                            |
|------:|:----------------------------------------------------|
| 0x0   | OBJECT_DATAGRAM ({{object-datagram}})               |
|-------|-----------------------------------------------------|
{: #moq-transport-message-datagram title="MOQT Datagram Messages"}

### OBJECT_DATAGRAM {#object-datagram}

An `OBJECT_DATAGRAM` message carries a single object in a datagram.
There is no explicit length of the payload; it is determined by the
length of the datagram.

An Object received in an `OBJECT_DATAGRAM` message has an `Object
Forwarding Preference` = `Datagram`. To send an Object with `Object
Forwarding Preference` = `Datagram`, determine the length of the fields and
payload and send the Object as datagram. In certain scenarios where the object
size can be larger than maximum datagram size for the session, the Object
will be dropped.

~~~
OBJECT_DATAGRAM Message {
  Subscribe ID (i),
  Track Alias (i),
  Group ID (i),
  Object ID (i),
  Object Send Order (i),
  Object Payload (..),
}
~~~
{: #object-datagram-format title="MOQT OBJECT_DATAGRAM Message"}

> 

Author: I can make it easier to review by splitting it into two commits. The first one changes the order of messages while the second one reflows some text, specifically about data messages.

> 

Reviewer: That would be very helpful.  I think this is a good change, but I'm hesitant to merge such a large single change because it is difficult to know exactly what changed.
